# 301 Notes Reading 4  

Putting it all together  

Reading  
React Docs - Thinking in React  
<https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html>  

What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?  
A component (or function or object) should ideally only do one thing.  If it grows it should be split into smaller subcomponents.  

What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?  
To build components that reuse other components and pass data using props, using no state.  

Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?  
state  

What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?  
Is it passed in from a parent via props? If so, it probably isn’t state.  
Does it remain unchanged over time? If so, it probably isn’t state.  
Can you compute it based on any other state or props in your component? If so, it isn’t state.  

How can you identify where state needs to live?  
Identify every component that renders something based on that state.  
Find a common owner component (a single component above all the components that need the state in the hierarchy).  
Either the common owner or another component higher up in the hierarchy should own the state.  
If you can’t find a component where it makes sense to own the state, create a new component solely for holding the state and add it somewhere in the hierarchy above the common owner component.  

Higher-Order Functions  
<https://eloquentjavascript.net/05_higher_order.html#h_xxCc98lOBK>  

What is a “higher-order function”?  
They're functions that operate on other functions, by taking them as arguments or by returning them.  

Explore the greaterThan function as defined in the reading. In your own words, what is line 2 of this function doing?  
Using arrow function notation to compare two variables, most likely numbers, to see which number is greater.  

Explain how either map or reduce operates, with regards to higher-order functions.  
It "transforms" an array or value into a different array or value based on the inpt and parameters.  

## Things I want to know more about  

Are map and reduce always and only considered to be used with higher order functions?

- [Go to TOC](README.md)  
