# 301 Reading 12: CRUD  

Reading  
## Status Codes Based On REST Methods  

<https://www.moesif.com/blog/technical/api-design/Which-HTTP-Status-Code-To-Use-For-Every-CRUD-App/>  

In your own words, describe what each group of status code represents:  

100’s =  Information about what the server is trying to do.  
200’s =  Codes that tell you requests (or responses?) succeeded.  
300’s =  These tell you the client has to redirect a request to a new location.  Sometimes these redirections are only need temporarily.  
400’s =  These are error codes saying client requests to a server are invalid.  
500’s =  These indicate errors on the servers end.  

What is a status code 202?
Accepted request.  
In case of asynchronous processing of a request (202), this doesn’t mean the request was successfully processed only that it met all validation requirements at the time of sending.  

What is a status code 308?  
What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client?  
What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does?  
What is the ‘Forbidden’ status code?  

Videos  

## Build A REST API With Node.js, Express, & MongoDB - Quick - First 20 minutes  

<https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCFbNIlppjAuEX4znoulh0Cw>

Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?
So we can connect outside of our localhost environment.  

What is middleware?  
Code that runs after a successful request and before data is sent back.  

What does app.use(express.json()) do?  
Parses incoming requests for the middleware.  

What does the /:id mean in a route?  
: means its a parameter that we can access with request.param.id, giving access to whatevers after the first slash.  

What is the difference between PUT and PATCH?  
PUT would update all information about a subscriber(client), patch just updates what is passed from the input.  

How do you make a default value in a schema?  
It would be `default: Date.now` for schema type "Date"  

What does a 500 error status code mean?  
Server encountered an unexpected condition that prevented it from fulfilling the request.  

What is the difference between a status 200 and a status 201?  
They both indicate a request has succeeded, but 201 means it also led to the creation of a resource.  

## Things I want to know more about  

REST APIs in general,  
different schema types.  

- [Go to TOC](README.md)
