# 301 Reading Notes 1  

This is integral to making different functionalities in react.  

## Component-Based Architecture  

What is a “component”?  
A component is a modular, portable, replaceable, and reusable set of well-defined funcionality that encapsulates its implementation and exports it as a higher-level interface.  
A component is a software object, intended to interact with other components, encapsulating certain functionality or a set of functionalities.  

What are the characteristics of a component?  
Reusability-usually designed to be reused in different situations in different applications. Some components may be designed for a specific task.  
Replaceable-Components may be substituted with other similar components.  
Not context specific − Components are designed to operate in different environments and contexts.  
Extensible-can be extended from existing components to provide new behavior.  
Encapsulated-A component depicts the interfaces, which allow the caller to use its functionality, and do not expose details of the internal processes, variables, or state.  
Independent-minimal dependencies on other components.  

What are the advantages of using component-based architecture?  
Easy to deploy, reduced cost, easy to develop, reusable, modification of technical complexity, reliable, system maintenance and evolution (easy to change and update)  


## What is Props and How to Use it in React  

What is “props” short for?  
properties  

How are props used in React?  
They're used to pass data to different components  

What is the flow of props?  
One way from parent to child  

## Things I want to know more about

What does modular mean in this context?

- [Go to TOC](README.md)
