# AWS: S3 and Lambda

## Reading

### AWS S3

What is Amazon S3?  
Object storage built to retrieve any amount of data from anywhere  

Name some use cases for Amazon S3.  
Build a data lake  
Back up and restore critical data  
Archive data at the lowest cost  
Run cloud-native applications  

Name some benefits of using Amazon S3.  
Save on storage costs  
access data from anywhere  

### AWS Lambda Basics  

What is AWS Lambda?  
Serverless (as far as users go) service where users create functions, self-contained applications written in one of the supported languages and runtimes  

Name some use cases for AWS Lambdas.  
individual tasks run for a short time, each task is generally self-contained, there is a large difference between the lowest and highest levels in the workload of the application.  

Describe “serverless” to a non-technical friend.  
Lambda manages servers and lest us use them so we never have to mess with them.  

### CDN

What is a CDN?  
Content Delivery Network  
"geographically distributed group of servers that work together to provide fast delivery of Internet content"  

How does a CDN work with relation to the website visitor?  
Fetches content from nearest data center.  

What are the benefits of employing a CDN?  
Faster loading times, content is saved in more places making it harder to destroy accidentally.

## Reflection

What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?  
Just to get through the labs.  

## Things I want to know more about

When to know when it's worth employing these service.

- [Go to TOC](README.md)
