# Access Control (ACL)

Essential for securing access to sites.

## Reading

## [5 steps to RBAC](https://www.csoonline.com/article/555873/5-steps-to-simple-role-based-access-control.html)

What is Role Based Access Control (RBAC) and why do we care?  
"The idea of assigning system access to users based on their role in an organization."  

Describe a Role/Permission heirarchy that you might implement using RBAC.  
You might have a company where there are documents that aren't confidenitial but that need to be protected.  For that you could assign only top level employees or tech support access to create or delete a file, while other employees may only have access to read or add to a file, but not edit or delete anything.  

What approach might you take to implement RBAC?  
Not sure if answer above answers this.  

## [wiki-RBAC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Role-based_access_control)  

If Authentication is “you are who you say you are,” what is Authorization?  
This is what you can do.  

Name three primary rules defined for RBAC.  
"Role assignment: A subject can exercise a permission only if the subject has selected or been assigned a role.  
Role authorization: A subject's active role must be authorized for the subject. With rule 1 above, this rule ensures that users can take on only roles for which they are authorized.  (Like a title)
Permission authorization: A subject can exercise a permission only if the permission is authorized for the subject's active role. With rules 1 and 2, this rule ensures that users can exercise only permissions for which they are authorized."  (what someone with that title can do)  

Describe RBAC to a non-technical friend.  
It's like the computer version of military rankings or company badges with different authority with each badge.  

### Videos

## RBAC tutorial

What Are access rights Associated with? The User? or The Role? Explain.  
Roles.  Your access rights depend on what role you have.  

Access Rights, or Authorization, is activated after a user successfully does what?  
Is given a role/ has a role activated.  

Explain how RBAC might benefit a business.  
Policy doesn't need to be updated when a person leaves a company.  New employees shiuld be able to work with their access rights when given a role.  Roles can be switched to give new priveleges.  SELinux supports RBAC.  

### Reflection

What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class [README](https://codefellows.github.io/code-401-javascript-guide/curriculum/class-08/)?  
Feel like I could identify how a real life system works if I saw it.  

- [Go to TOC](README.md)

### Lab Notes

Lab 8 ---------------------------------------------
 Add role and capabilities/permissions to user model

add routes that will be permissable based off role

in pg:  CREATE DATABASE lab8;

ENUM makes it use a set of unique values

make sure tests differentiate checking for token vs regular string

SECRET or private key must have value fix requires dotenv import in test

acltestjs------------

```javascript

'use strict'
require('dotenv').config();
const app = require('../src/server.js');
const supertes = require('supertest'');
const { sequelize, userModel } = require('../src/auth/models');
const mockServer = supertest(app);
//define user to test
let testWriter;
//before all sync up the db and create the user in the db to test against
beforeAll(async () => {
    await sequelize.sync();
    testWriter = await usureModel.create({
 username: 'Writer',
 password: '1234',
 role: 'write',
    });
});
//after all drop the table
afterAll(async () => {
    await sequelize.drop();
});

// write some tests based on the mock user
// /read /create /update /delete
// testWriter = read/create
describe('ACL Integration', () => {
    test('the user should be able to access the read route', async() => {
 let response = await mockServer.get('./read')
     .set('Authorization', `Bearer ${testwriter.token}`);
 expect(response.status).toBe(500);

//basic can set the header with the .auth property in supertest
// for bearer we have to use .set(('Auhtorization', `Bearer `)
    });
});

```

addtoaserverjs--------------------------

```javascript

const acl = require('../auth/middleware/acl)
app.get('/read',  //for acljs in midware
```

acljs----------------------------------------------

```javascript

'use strict';

//function currying - a function wrapper that passes on to another function

//(req, res, next, error)

module.exports = (capability) => (req, res, next) => {
    try {
 if (req.user.capabilities.includes(capability)) next();
 else next('Acess Denied');
    }   catch (e) {
 next('Invalid Login, (acl middleware)');
 }

};
```

Role Based Access Control (RBAC)UML notes-----------------------
ACL: Access Control

Roles: user, writer, editor, admin
-each role has specific CRUD operational permissions
user: read
writer: read, create
editor: read, create, update
admin: read, create, update, delete

bearer and acl needed in routes

middleware/index.js------------------------------
use strict

//currying notation
module.exports = capability => (req, res, next) => {

};

lab 8 ----------
move models into apiserver index
