# Message Queues

## Reading

### [Socket.io Chat Example](https://socket.io/get-started/chat/)

Explain to a non-technical recruiter what the Chat Example (above) does.  
It allows the app to work with a library of code called NodeJS.  

What proof of life are we getting on the backend from the above app?  
a console log saying which port we are listening on, and a confirmation via console log everytime a user connects.  

Socket.IO gives us the i0.emit() method to send an event to everyone. What flag would you use if you want to send a message to everyone except for a certain emitting socket?  
Broadcast.  

### [Rooms](https://socket.io/docs/v4/rooms)

What is a room and how might a room be useful?  
"A room is an arbitrary channel that sockets can join and leave. It can be used to broadcast events to a subset of clients:"  

How do you join a room?  
call join to subscribe the socket to a given channel

```javascript
io.on("connection", (socket) => {
  socket.join("some room");
});
```

how do you leave a room?  
disconnect.  

### [Namespaces](https://socket.io/docs/v4/namespaces/)

What is a Namespace and what does it allow you to do?  
"It's a communication channel that allows you to split the logic of your application over a single shared connection (also called "multiplexing")."  

Each namespace potentially has its own what? (hint: 3 things)  
event handlers, rooms, and middlewares.  

Discuss a possible use case for separate namespaces  
To have logic reserved for authorized users be seperate from the rest of the app.  

## Bookmark and Review

[Socket.io Emit Cheatsheet](https://socket.io/docs/v4/emit-cheatsheet/)

## Reflection

What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class [README](https://codefellows.github.io/code-401-javascript-guide/curriculum/class-13/)?
Just to have a general understanding of how all these parts work together.  

## Things I want to know more about

If this is as simple as it seems and the complicated part is when you actually connect real apps or am I just oversimplifying it all or maybe just missing the point.  

- [Go to TOC](README.md)
